misc: Add release notes for version 23.1 (#447)
gem5/gem5: RELEASE-NOTES.md

# Version 23.1

gem5 Version 23.1 is our first release where the development has been on GitHub.
During this release, there have been 362 pull requests merged which comprise 416 commits with 51 unique contributors.

## Significant API and user-facing changes

### The gem5 build can is now configured with `kconfig`

> Most gem5 builds (e.g., `build/X86/gem5.opt`) are backwards compatible and require no changes to your current workflows.

Reviewer: Most gem5 builds without customized options (excluding double dash options) (e.g. ...

Author: Just to confirm do you want the sentence to change to "Most gem5 builds without customized options (excluding double dash options) (e.g. , `build/X86/gem5.opt`) are backwards compatible and require no changes to your current workflows."?

Reviewer: Yes

All of the default builds in `build_opts` are unchanged and still available.

> However, if you want to specialize your build, you now have to use `scons <kconfig command>`.

Reviewer: Sorry for lately reply, I would like to add following description:

> However, if you want to specialize your build, you now have to use `scons <kconfig command>`.

To

> However, if you want to specialize your build. For example, use customized ruby protocol. The command `scons PROTOCOL=<PROTOCAL_NAME> build/ALL/gem5.opt` will not work anymore. you now have to use `scons <kconfig command>` to update the ruby protocol as example. The double dash options (--without-tcmalloc, --with-asan and so on) are still continue to work as normal.

- Fixes for how write mask works for GPU WB L2 caches
- Added support for WB and WT GPU atomics
- Added configurable support to better model the latency of GPU atomic requests
- fix GPU's default number of HW barrier/CU to better model amount of concurrency GPU CUs should have

## RISC-V RVV 1.0 implemented

This was a huge undertaking by a large number of people!
Some of these people include Adrià Armejach who pushed it over the finish line, Xuan Hu who pushed the most recent version to gerrit that Adrià picked up,
Jerin Joy who did much of the initial work, and many others who contributed to the implementation including Roger Chang, Hoa Nguyen who put significant effort into testing and reviewing the code.

- Most of the instructions in the 1.0 spec implemented
- Works with both FS and SE mode
- Compatible with Simple CPUs, the O3, and the minor CPU models
- User can specify the width of the vector units
- Future improvements
  - Widening/narrowing instructions are *not* implemented
  - The model for executing memory instructions is not very high performance
  - The statistics are not correct for counting vector instruction execution

> 

Reviewer: > Add new RISC-V Zcb instructions
https://github.com/gem5/gem5/pull/399

# Version 23.1
## Significant API and user-facing changes
### `WorkloadResource` added to resource specialization

> - `Workload` and `AbstractWorkload` classes have been deprecated. They have been converted to be wrappers of `obtain_resource` and `WorkloadResource` class respectively.

Reviewer 2: How does one fix their code if they are using the old API?

- Added support for clang 15 and clang 16
- gem5 no longer supports building on Ubuntu 18.04
- GCC 7, GCC 9, and clang 6 are no longer supported

> - The stats `board.memory.mem_ctrl.dram.bytesRead` and `board.memory.mem_ctrl.dram.bytesWritten` are changed to `board.memory.mem_ctrl.dram.dramBytesRead` and `board.memory.mem_ctrl.dram.dramBytesWritten` respectively.
> - The stats `board.memory.mem_ctrl.nvm.bytesRead` and `board.memory.mem_ctrl.nvm.bytesWritten` are changed to `board.memory.mem_ctrl.nvm.nvmBytesRead` and `board.memory.mem_ctrl.nvm.nvmBytesWritten` respectively.

Reviewer 2: @Harshil2107 

```suggestion
- Two `DRAMInterface` stats have changed names (`bytesRead` and `bytesWritten`). For instance, `board.memory.mem_ctrl.dram.bytesRead` and `board.memory.mem_ctrl.dram.bytesWritten`. These are changed to `dramBytesRead` and `dramBytesWritten` so they don't collide with the stat with the same name in `AbstractMemory`.
- The stats for `NVMInterface` (`bytesRead` and `bytesWritten`) have been change to `nvmBytesRead` and `nvmBytesWritten` as well.
```
